---
title: Student Life
layout: page
permalink: /student.html
---

# Student Life

The University of Idaho would be nothing without its students, and that is why there are so many amazing organizations, residences, and opportunities for matriculants of this great school. One aspect of campus which many students choose to participate in is the Greek system which has been nationally active at the university for over 100 years. There are currently 10 sororities and 18 fraternities on campus in addition to six multicultural Greek organizations. Each of these organizations represent a rich history of student life and tradition on the University of Idaho campus. Though there were local fraternities and sororities during the earliest years of the university, the first national Greek organization to charter on campus was Kappa Sigma fraternity in 1905. After significant membership growth, the fraternity built a chapter house in 1916 and it has been continuously occupied by the men of Kappa Sigma since its construction. Their chapter house, complete with large white pillars, red brick, and a manicured lawn, was recently added to the National Register of Historic Places. Sororities also have an extensive history on the University of Idaho campus. In 1909 the women of the local sorority, Alpha Delta Pi, were contacted by a national sorority and soon after chartered as the national sorority, Gamma Phi Beta, thus becoming the first national sorority on the University of Idaho campus. Though this organization does not reside in the same historic house they once did, they are still a very active chapter on campus and embody the spirit of student organizations. While Greek life on campus offers a glimpse into the history of student life, this system continues to grow and offer new opportunities for students. 

Along with the history of Greek life, there are many aspects of these organizations which facilitate the “college experience” of University of Idaho students. For example, each organization hosts annual or biannual philanthropy events which aid in initiatives such as literacy, preventing child abuse, children’s hospitals, and so forth. These organizations also host socials, formals, and chapter events to stimulate connections, friendships, and fun. While these Greek organizations promote a fun college experience, their primary goal is to instill skills into its members that will prepare them for a successful life post graduation. Chapters often host professional development workshops and consistently hold members to high academic standards and encourage involvement in academic clubs and extracurricular activities to build their résumés and prepare them for a successful professional life. 

In addition to Greek life, there are many student organizations which allow for involvement related to any number of interests. For example, the Vandal Marching Band, cheer team, intramural sports program, and Vandal athletics provide the opportunity to engage with fellow students in an active and exciting environment. On the other hand, there are many programs that focus on professional development, leadership, and service. For example, Associated Students of the University of Idaho (ASUI) provides opportunities for individuals to be active in the student body government, the Alternative Spring Break (ASB) program allows students to engage with their community in a helpful and meaningful way, and ambassador programs help students represent and interact with their college as well as develop leadership and communication skills. Overall, the University of Idaho has something for everyone and facilitates the growth and development of its students by providing amazing organizations and opportunities for everyone. 